Introduction to C

What is C? : 

C is a general purpose programming language created by Dennis Ritchie at Bell Labs in 1972.

It is popular because it is widely supported and fast and helps you understand how programs work "under the hood".

The main reason for its popularity is because it is the fundamental language in the field of computer science. 

C is closely connected to UNIX, because much of UNIX is written in C. 

What is C used for? : 

C is often used to create programs that need to run fast and work closely with computer.
-> Operating systems such as parts of Windows, Linux and macOS.
-> Program inside devices : tcars, TVs, & home electronics
-> game engines and programs that handle graphics.
-> core libraries that other programming languages rely on.

For curious learners: C has different language standards : C90, C99, C11, C17 and other newer versions. This tutorial focuses on modern, widely supported C and we point out important differences when it matters.

Why learn C? : 
-> It is one of the widely used programming languages.
-> If you know C, you will have no problem learning other popular programming languages such as: Java, Python, C++, C# etc. as the syntax is similar.
-> It helps you to understand memory, performance and how computer handles data. 
-> C is very versatile, it can be used in both applications and technologies. 

Difference between C and C++ : 
-> C++ was developed as an extension of C, and the syntax is often similar.
-> C is mainly a procedural language ( you build programs with functions).
-> C++ supports classes and objects (often used for object oriented programming).
Note : C can still organize data using structures and you can build large programs in C too. C++ just offers additional features (like classes) on top. 

Now, let's get started :
This tutorial will teach you the basics of C, step by step.
You will learn how to write C programs, understand what the code means and build small projects along the way. 
It's not necessary to have any prior programming experience. 

Install C :
If you want to run C programs on your computers, you need to have two things:
-> A text editor to write C code
-> A compiler to turn that C code into a program that computer can run.
The compiler runs your C code and translates it into machine code.
There are many editors and compilers. To make things easier, most people use an IDE which includes both. 

Install IDE :
An IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a program that helps you write, compile and run the code. 
Popular IDEs include Code::Blocks, Eclipse and Visual Studio
These are free tools that can also help you find error in your code:
Note : Web-based IDEs can also work, but they often have limited features. 

Choose the "mingw-setup.exe" file, which includes both the editor and the compiler. 

C Quickstart :
Let's create our first C file:

Write the following code and save the file as: myfirstprogram.c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    printf("Hello World");
    return 0;
}
Note : C source files always end with .c

Result
Hello World

If you see the message above, your setup is working correctly. 
Congratulations! You have now written and executed your first C program.

What just happened? You wrote C code, the compiler turned it into program and computer ran it. This is the basic workflow you will use throughout the tutorial. 
